feat: Adding ckERC20 pages and chain-key token requirements (#3107)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/ckerc20/making-transactions.mdx

---
keywords: [advanced, ethereum, eth, tutorial, convert eth, convert cketh, transfer cketh, use cketh, send cketh]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import { MarkdownChipRow } from "/src/components/Chip/MarkdownChipRow";

> # Making transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Making ckERC20 transactions
```

<MarkdownChipRow labels={["Advanced", "Ethereum", "Tutorial"]} />

## Overview

There are several different ways to interact with ckERC20 tokens:

- Converting ckERC20 to ERC-20 tokens
- Converting ERC-20 to ckERC20 tokens
- Transferring ckERC20 tokens
- Viewing ckERC20 token transactions

## Converting ERC-20 tokens to ckERC20 tokens

> First [download the ckETH repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/tree/master/rs/ethereum/cketh). Then, navigate into the subdirectory for either the mainnet(ic/rs/ethereum/cketh/mainnet) or testnet(ic/rs/ethereum/cketh/testnet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First [download the ckETH repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/tree/master/rs/ethereum/cketh). Then, navigate into the subdirectory for either the mainnet (ic/rs/ethereum/cketh/mainnet) or testnet (ic/rs/ethereum/cketh/testnet).
```

:::note

Note that ERC-20 tokens can only be converted if the ICRC ledger suite for the
corresponding ckERC20 token exists. The list of supported ckERC20 tokens can be obtained by running the following command:

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```
dfx canister --ic call minter get_minter_info
```

The return value contains a vector `supported_ckerc20_tokens`, which lists all ckERC20 tokens.
The return value also contains the field `erc20_helper_contract_address`, which states the **helper smart contract** address on Ethereum used in the conversion flows.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::
```

Author: Why is this needed?

> Currently, the ckERC20 helper contracts are the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ckERC20 helper contract addresses can be found below:
```

|Ethereum chain |Helper smart contract |
|---------------|----------------------|
|[Ethereum Mainnet](https://github.com/ethereum-lists/chains/blob/master/_data/chains/eip155-1.json)|[0x6abDA0438307733FC299e9C229FD3cc074bD8cC0](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6abDA0438307733FC299e9C229FD3cc074bD8cC0)|
|[Ethereum Testnet Sepolia](https://github.com/ethereum-lists/chains/blob/master/_data/chains/eip155-11155111.json)|[0x674Cdbe64Df412DA9bAb1596e00c1520979B5A23](https://sepolia.etherscan.io/address/0x674Cdbe64Df412DA9bAb1596e00c1520979B5A23)|

:::info

> Note that the helper smart contract might change. It is therefore recommended to request the (ckETH) minter info and extract the helper smart contract address from the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the helper smart contract might change. It is therefore recommended to request the ckETH minter info and extract the helper smart contract address from the response to assure you have the latest contract address.
```

:::

> If the targeted ckERC20 token is listed, the first step is to create an Ethereum transaction that calls the `approve` function on the corresponding ERC-20 contract address, allowing the helper smart contract to withdraw some of the user's funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the targeted ckERC20 token is listed, the next step is to create an Ethereum transaction that calls the `approve` function on the corresponding ERC-20 contract address, allowing the helper smart contract to withdraw some of the user's funds.
```

The next step is to call the `deposit` function of the helper smart contract, specifying the ERC-20 smart contract address, the amount to be deposited, and the principal ID that should be credited for the deposit. The principal ID must be encoded as a `bytes32` array. A convenient way to obtain the correct encoding is to use the `Principal → Bytes32 conversion` function on the ckETH minter [dashboard](https://sv3dd-oaaaa-aaaar-qacoa-cai.raw.icp0.io/dashboard).

:::warning

If your encoded principal ID is incorrect, funds will be lost.

:::

> No further user action is required. The icrc1_balance_of function can be called on the corresponding ckERC20 ledger to check if the ckERC20 tokens have been minted, which usually takes about 20 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No further user action is required. The `icrc1_balance_of` function can be called on the corresponding ckERC20 ledger to check if the ckERC20 tokens have been minted, which usually takes about 20 minutes.
```

```

The user must further approve the ckETH minter to transfer the desired amount of the targeted ckERC20 token:

```
dfx canister --ic call CKERC20_LEDGER icrc2_approve "(record { spender = record { owner = principal \"$(dfx canister id minter --ic)\" }; amount = CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT:nat })"
```

The placeholder `CKERC20_LEDGER` must be replaced by the canister ID of the corresponding ckERC20 ledger and `CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT` must be replaced by the desired amount, denominated in the smallest unit of the token. For example, USDC and ckUSDC use 6 decimals, so 1 USDC must be written as `1_000_000`.

The last step is to call the `withdraw_erc20` function on the ckETH minter as follows.

```
dfx canister --ic call minter withdraw_erc20 "(record { amount = CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT:nat; ckerc20_ledger_id = principal \"CKERC20_LEDGER\"; recipient = \"ETH_ADDRESS\"})"
```

As before, `CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT` and `CKERC20_LEDGER` must be replaced by the desired amount in the smallest unit and the canister ID of the ckERC20 ledger, respectively.
Lastly, `ETH_ADDRESS` must be replaced by the desired Ethereum destination address.

## Transferring ckERC20 tokens

> ckERC20 tokens are standard ICRC-1 tokens and can be transferred by calling the `ircr1_transfer` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ckERC20 tokens are standard ICRC-1 tokens and can be transferred by calling the `icrc1_transfer` function.
```

```
dfx canister --ic call CKERC20_LEDGER "(record { to = DESTINATION_ACCOUNT; amount = AMOUNT:nat})"
```

The placeholders `CKERC20_LEDGER`, `DESTINATION_ACCOUNT`, and `AMOUNT` must be replaced by the canister ID of the targeted ckERC20 ledger, the destination account, and the desired amount, respectively. More information about the `icrc1_tranfer` function can be found in the [ICRC-1 standard specification](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC-1/tree/main/standards/ICRC-1).

:::note

Transferring ckERC20 tokens incurs a small fee. The exact amount depends on the specific ckERC20 token. The transfer fee can be obtained by calling the `icrc1_metadata` function on the ckERC20 ledger. The response contains the fee under the key `icrc1:fee`.

:::

## Viewing ckERC20 token transactions

> The ckERC20 tokens have not been added to the Internet Computer dashboard yet.

Reviewer: Aren't the ckUSDC transactions on the dashboard? https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/ethereum/xevnm-gaaaa-aaaar-qafnq-cai

IMO we should include mention of ckUSDC here and the link to the transaction dashboard.

Author: You're right. Last time I checked, these transactions were not there yet.   :slightly_smiling_face: 
I'll add a paragraph mentioning concrete ckERC20 tokens including links here.

Author: Done! Please take another look.

```

The user must further approve the ckETH minter to transfer the desired amount of the targeted ckERC20 token:

```
dfx canister --ic call CKERC20_LEDGER icrc2_approve "(record { spender = record { owner = principal \"$(dfx canister id minter --ic)\" }; amount = CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT:nat })"
```

The placeholder `CKERC20_LEDGER` must be replaced by the canister ID of the corresponding ckERC20 ledger and `CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT` must be replaced by the desired amount, denominated in the smallest unit of the token. For example, USDC and ckUSDC use 6 decimals, so 1 USDC must be written as `1_000_000`.

The last step is to call the `withdraw_erc20` function on the ckETH minter as follows.

```
dfx canister --ic call minter withdraw_erc20 "(record { amount = CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT:nat; ckerc20_ledger_id = principal \"CKERC20_LEDGER\"; recipient = \"ETH_ADDRESS\"})"
```

As before, `CKERC20_TOKEN_AMOUNT` and `CKERC20_LEDGER` must be replaced by the desired amount in the smallest unit and the canister ID of the ckERC20 ledger, respectively.
Lastly, `ETH_ADDRESS` must be replaced by the desired Ethereum destination address.

## Transferring ckERC20 tokens

> ckERC20 tokens are standard ICRC-1 tokens and can be transferred by calling the `icrc1_transfer` function.

Reviewer: >standard ICRC-1 tokens

The other pages refer to ckERC20 as an ICRC-2 compliant token, but then here reference it as a 'standard ICRC-1 token'. This is confusing, is there a reason why here it is specified as an ICRC-1 token and not ICRC-2? Could this be reworded to say that it complies with ICRC-1 and ICRC-2, and therefore can be transferred with the `icrc1_transfer` function?

Author: Good point. Done!

:::info

Transferring ckERC20 tokens incurs a small fee. The exact amount depends on the specific ckERC20 token. The transfer fee can be obtained by calling the `icrc1_metadata` function on the ckERC20 ledger. The response contains the fee under the key `icrc1:fee`.

:::

## Viewing ckERC20 token transactions

The Internet Computer dashboard shows the transactions of all ckERC20 tokens:

- [ckUSDC transactions](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/ethereum/xevnm-gaaaa-aaaar-qafnq-cai/transactions)

- [ckLINK transactions](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/ethereum/g4tto-rqaaa-aaaar-qageq-cai/transactions)

Alternatively, the history of transactions can be obtained from the index canister of the ckERC20 ledger suite.
The following command can be used to retrieve the canister IDs of all canisters in the ledger suite of a particular ckERC20 token.

```
dfx canister --network ic call LSO canister_ids "(record { chain_id = CHAIN_ID:nat; address = "ERC_20_CONTRACT_ADDRESS"})"
```

> `LSO` must be replaced by the canister ID of the ledger suite orchestrator associated with the targeted Ethereum network (for example, it is `vxkom-oyaaa-aaaar-qafda-cai` for Ethereum mainnet), `CHAIN_ID` must be replaced by the chain ID of the targeted Ethereum network (for example, `chain_id = 1` for Ethereum mainnet). Lastly, `ERC_20_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` must be replaced by the corresponding ERC-20 smart contract address (for example, `address = "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48"` for USDC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Replace the following values:

- `LSO`: The canister ID of the ledger suite orchestrator associated with the targeted Ethereum network (`vxkom-oyaaa-aaaar-qafda-cai` for Ethereum mainnet).

- `CHAIN_ID`: The chain ID of the targeted Ethereum network (`chain_id = 1` for Ethereum mainnet). 

- `ERC_20_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`: The corresponding ERC-20 smart contract address (`address = "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48"` for USDC).
```
